[Ruby] Extended JSON (#168)
mongodb/docs-ruby: source/data-formats/extended-json.txt

       :start-after: start-ex-json-read
       :end-before: end-ex-json-read
       :language: ruby
       :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

      {"foo" => [1, 2]}
      {"bar" => {"hello" => "world"}}
      {"code" => #<BSON::CodeWithScope:0x0000000123f398e0 @javascript="function x() { return 1; }", @scope={}>}
      {"bin" => <BSON::Binary:0x7144 type=user data=0x01020304...>}

Write Extended JSON
-------------------

You can write an Extended JSON string from a hash by using the
``as_extended_json()`` method. By default, this method returns
the Extended JSON string in canonical format, but you can specify relaxed or
legacy formats by passing a ``mode`` argument. 

.. note:: Legacy Version

   The legacy format option tells the {+driver-short+} to serialize BSON types
   with the MongoDB Extended JSON v1 format, which predates the current
   relaxed and canonical formats. 

   For more information see, the :manual:`MongoDB Extended JSON v1
   </reference/mongodb-extended-json-v1/>` page in the Server manual. 

The following example outputs an Extended JSON string in the canonical, relaxed,

> and legacy formats. It calls the ``as_extended_json()`` method from inside a
> Ruby ``map{}`` block to create the Extended JSON string from an array of hashes:

Reviewer: As noted in a later comment, you can invoke `#as_extended_json` directly on an array instance.

```suggestion
and legacy formats. It calls the ``#as_extended_json`` method on an array to create the
Extended JSON string from an array of hashes:
```

Also, Ruby convention refers to instance methods as `#method_name`, rather than `method_name()`.

.. _ruby-extended-json:

=============
Extended JSON
=============

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: code example, json, standard formatting
   :description: Learn how to use extended JSON in the MongoDB Ruby Driver.

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: twocols

.. sharedinclude:: dbx/extended-json.rst

Read Extended JSON
------------------

You can read an Extended JSON string into an Ruby array by calling
the ``BSON::ExtJSON.parse()`` method. This method parses an Extended
JSON string and returns an array containing the data.

The following example shows how you can read an Extended JSON string into a
array of hashes by using the ``parse()`` method:

> .. io-code-block::

Reviewer 2: S: can you move these code snippets into a separate file?

   .. input::
      :language: ruby 

      require 'bson'

      ex_json = '''[
         {"foo": [1, 2]},
         {"bar": {"hello": "world"}},
         {"code": {
            "$scope": {},
            "$code": "function x() { return 1; }"
         }},
         {"bin": {
            "$type": "80",
            "$binary": "AQIDBA=="
         }}
         ]'''

        doc = BSON::ExtJSON.parse(ex_json)
        
        puts doc.class
        puts doc

   .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

      {"foo" => [1, 2]}
      {"bar" => {"hello" => "world"}}
      {"code" => #<BSON::CodeWithScope:0x0000000123f398e0 @javascript="function x() { return 1; }", @scope={}>}
      {"bin" => <BSON::Binary:0x7144 type=user data=0x01020304...>}

Write Extended JSON
-------------------

> You can write an Extended JSON string from a hash by using the
> ``as_extended_json()`` method. Using the Ruby ``map{}`` method, you can create
> an Extended JSON string from an array of hashes. By default, this method returns
> the Extended JSON string in canonical format, but you can specify relaxed or

Reviewer 2: S: I was a little confused by this description of both the ``as_extended_json()`` method and ``map{}``, and which one "this method" refers to. I think you can just describe ``as_extended_json()`` in this intro section, then talk about ``map`` further down:
```suggestion
You can write an Extended JSON string from a hash by using the
``as_extended_json()`` method. By default, this method returns
the Extended JSON string in canonical format, but you can specify relaxed or
```

Author: Good call out. I moved the ``map`` description to the example intro below.

> legacy formats by passing a ``mode:`` argument. 

Reviewer 2: S: I'd remove the colon from the argument name
```suggestion
legacy formats by passing a ``mode`` argument. 
```
